chore(wiki): add sync and analytics wiki page (#1177)
iotaledger/inx-chronicle: documentation/docs/reference/sync_and_analytics.md

---
keywords:
- documentation
- inx
- reference
- sync
---

# INX Syncing

The primary function of Chronicle is to gather confirmed tangle data via an INX connection. This connection will most likely be to an IOTA Node, which should be on the same machine as the Chronicle instance.

> When running with the `inx` feature (default using the docker image), Chronicle will stream data from the `INX_URL` and store it in the configured `MongoDB` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running with the `inx` feature (default using the docker image), Chronicle will stream data from the node located at `INX_URL` and store it in the configured `MongoDB` instance.
```

## Singleton Writer

Chronicle assumes that it is the only instance writing to the configured `MongoDB` database. Otherwise it will exit due to write conflicts.

## Network Name Link

When Chronicle starts for the first time, it stores the latest network protocol parameters. It uses these to check that the same network is used across the lifetime of the dataset. In particular, the network name must not change, or Chronicle will fail to start.

## Ledger State

When Chronicle starts syncing, it will get the current Ledger State from the INX source. Though Chronicle can sync back to the earliest data the INX connection can provide, the data may not be valid until it catches up to the ledger index of that initial state.

## Analytics

> The starting index determines when Analytics can begin. Analytics are calculated incrementally per-milestone, but require an initial ledger state which is only valid once Chronicle is caught up to the starting index.

Reviewer: non-native speaker but my feelin tells me that should be:
```suggestion
The starting index determines when Analytics can begin. Analytics are calculated incrementally per-milestone, but require an initial ledger state which is only valid once Chronicle has caught up to the starting index.
```

# CLI Analytics

> Analytics can also be synced manually using one of two command-line arguments: `fill-analytics` and `fill-interval-analytics`. Neither should be run until Chronicle reports that it is healthy (see the `/health` endpoint) or else the results may not be correct. However, if this happens, re-running the analytics when Chronicle is healthy will overwrite the previous values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Analytics can also be synced manually using the `fill-analytics` command-line tool. It should not be run until Chronicle reports that it is healthy (see the `/health` endpoint) or else the results may not be correct. However, if this happens, re-running the analytics when Chronicle is healthy will overwrite the previous values.
```

Author: Ah, yes, thanks.
